Create guest-accounts.rst (#3050)
mattermost/docs: source/deployment/guest-accounts.rst

.. _guest-accounts:

Guest Accounts (Beta) (E10 and E20)
===================================

Available in `Enterprise Edition E10 and higher <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/>`__. 

Guest Accounts are a new role within Mattermost Enterprise editions which allow organizations to collaborate with individuals (such as vendors and contractors) outside of their organization. The Guest Account feature controls access to channels and other members within the organization. 

> An organization may use guest accounts to work on a website project with resources from external design firm.  Or Guest accounts could be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An organization may use guest accounts to work on a website project with resources from external design firm.  Guest accounts could also be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.
```

> Guests can: 

Reviewer: This and the below don't appear as lists. Probably need to add a space after the "heading" and the numbered list.

Author: meant for these to be bullets.  Updated

1. Pin messages to channels
2. Use slash commands (with the exception of those used to invite members)
3. Favorite channels
4. Mute channels
3. Update their account settings

Guests cannot: 
1.  Discover public channels
2.  Join open teams
3.  Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel

Enabling Guest Accounts
-----------------------------------

> To enable Guests Accounts: 

Reviewer: Not appearing as a list.

To invite guests into one or more Mattermost channels:

1. Navigate to **Main Menu > Invite People**.  This is a new invitation option that combines inviting guests and members and consolidates **Send Email**, **Get Team Invite Link**, and **Add Members to the Team**. 
2. Select **Invite Guests**.
3. Enter the guest’s email address.
4. Choose the channels the guest can join. 
5. (Optional) Enter a custom message.

.. image:: ../images/Guest_Invite_Screen.png

Guest Permission Settings 
---------------------------------------

In E10 and E20, you can also control which users can invite guests. By default, only the System Administrator can invite guests. There are additional permissions in E20 that can be adjusted under **System Console > Advanced Permissions > System Scheme** to control a guest’s ability to:  

 - Edit posts
 - Delete posts
 - Post reactions
 - Create private channels with members they are allowed to collaborate with

Guest Identification
---------------------------

> Guess are identified with a guest badge. This badge is visible in various places on the interface and mobile apps such as on a guest’s profile and next to their name on user lists, including at mentions and quick switcher lists. When guests are added to a channel, a system message informs other channel members that the added user is a guest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guess are identified with a guest badge. This badge is visible in various places on the interface and mobile apps such as on a guest’s profile and next to their name on user lists, including at-mentions and quick switcher lists. When guests are added to a channel, a system message informs other channel members that the added user is a guest. 
```

.. _guest-accounts:

Guest Accounts (Beta) (E10 and E20)

> ===================================

Reviewer 2: Should we remove the (E10 and E20) from the header, as it's mentioned that it's available for "E10 and above" in the next line?

Author: I based it on the format used in "Custom Terms of Service" but am open to removing the redudancy.

Reviewer 2: If there's an existing format, then definitely leave it as-is. :)

Available in `Enterprise Edition E10 and higher <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/>`__. 

Guest Accounts are a new role within Mattermost Enterprise editions which allow organizations to collaborate with individuals (such as vendors and contractors) outside of their organization. The Guest Account feature controls access to channels and other members within the organization. 

> An organization may use guest accounts to work on a website project with resources from external design firm.  Or guest accounts could be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An organization may use guest accounts to work on a website project with resources from external design firm.  Or Guest Accounts could be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.  
```

Guests can: 

> 1. Pin messages to channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Pin messages to channels
```

2. Use slash commands (with the exception of those used to invite members)
3. Favorite channels
4. Mute channels
3. Update their account settings

Guests cannot: 
1.  Discover public channels
2.  Join open teams

> 3.  Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel
```

Enabling Guest Accounts
-----------------------------------
To enable Guests Accounts: 
1. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access**.

> 2. Update **Enable Guest Access** to ”True”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Update **Enable Guest Access** to ”True”.
```

3. **Whitelist domains that are acceptable for Guest Access** (Optional).  

> - This allows the System Administrators to set a list of approved guest domains If you have team domain restrictions, you will also need to add your guest domain to **Team Settings > Allow only users with a specific email domain to join this team**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This allows the System Administrators to set a list of approved guest domains. If you have team domain restrictions, you will also need to add your guest domain to **Team Settings > Allow only users with a specific email domain to join this team**.
```

4. **Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for your Guests** (Optional)
- If you are enforcing MFA for your users, you can optionally choose to enforce MFA for your guest users. 

Guest Authentication
-----------------------------
Guests can access the Mattermost server via email authentication. Please ensure you enable email invites from **System Console > Signup > Enable Email Invitations**.   

SAML 2.0 and AD/LDAP authentication will be provided in a future release.

Inviting Guests to the Mattermost Server
------------------------------------------------------
Guests can be invited into one for more Mattermost channels within a team by System Administrators and roles that have the **Invite Guest** permission. 

> Note: Guest invitations will be revoked after 48 hours per the member email invitation process. If your guest has not accepted the invitation in the time window, please follow the steps below to resend an invitation to the guest again. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** Guest invitations will be revoked after 48 hours per the member email invitation process. If your guest has not accepted the invitation in the time window, please follow the steps below to resend an invitation to the guest again. 
```

To invite guests into one or more Mattermost channels

> 1. Navigate to **Main Menu > Invite People**.  This is a new invitation option that combines inviting guests and members and consolidates the previous “Send Email, “Get Team Invite Link” and “Add Members to the Team”. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Main Menu > Invite People**.  This is a new invitation option that combines inviting guests and members and consolidates **Send Email**, **Get Team Invite Link**, and **Add Members to the Team**. 
```

2. Select **Invite Guests**.
3. Enter the guest’s email address.
4. Choose the channels the guest can join. 
5. (Optional) Enter a custom message.

.. image:: ../images/Guest_Invite_Screen.png

Guest Permission Settings 
---------------------------------------

In E10 and E20, you can also control which users can invite guests. By default, only the System Administrator can invite guests. There are additional permissions in E20 that can be adjusted under **System Console > Advanced Permissions > System Scheme** to control a guest’s ability to:  

 - Edit posts
 - Delete posts
 - Post reactions

>  - Create private channels with members they are allowed to collaborate with. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Create private channels with members they are allowed to collaborate with
```

Channels that contain guests will have their header automatically updated with a message stating: *This channel has guests*.

.. image:: ../images/Guest_Badges.png

Managing Guests
-------------------------

Adding Guests to Additional Channels
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Users with the permissions to invite guests can use the **Invite Guests** modal to add a guest to additional channels. 

A system message will be posted in the channels to let other members know a guest user has been added.  

Removing Guests from Channels and Teams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Guests can be removed from a channel through the normal manage members modals.  

When a guest has been removed from all channels within a team and they belong to other teams, they will default into the last channel on the last team they have accessed.  If they are removed from all channels on all teams, they will be taken to a screen letting them know they have no channels assigned. 

Promoting and Demoting User Roles
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> System Administrators can demote a *member* to *guest* by updating their role in **System Console > User Management > Users**.The demoted user will retain their existing channel and team memberships but will be restricted from discovering public channels and collaborating with users outside of the channels they are in.  This is useful if you are already collaborating with external contractors and want to restrict their abilities within your Mattermost instance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System Administrators can demote a *Member* to *Guest* by updating their role in **System Console > User Management > Users**. The demoted user will retain their existing channel and team memberships but will be restricted from discovering public channels and collaborating with users outside of the channels they are in.  This is useful if you are already collaborating with external contractors and want to restrict their abilities within your Mattermost instance. 
```

> System Administrators can also promote a *guest* to *member* by updating their role in **System Console > User Management > Users**.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
System Administrators can also promote a *Guest* to *Member* by updating their role in **System Console > User Management > Users**.  
```

Note: You can filter the list in **System Console >  User Management > Users** to view all guests on the system. 

Disabling Guest Accounts
-----------------------------------

> To disable guest accounts,  go to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access > Enable Guest Access** and select “False”, Current guest accounts will remain active until guest users manually marked “inactive” in **System Console >  User Management > Users**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To disable Guest Accounts,  go to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access > Enable Guest Access** and select “False”, Current Guest Accounts will remain active until guest users are manually marked “inactive” in **System Console >  User Management > Users**. 
```

In a future release when a guest account is disabled, the guests will be marked as inactive, be logged out of Mattermost, and all their sessions will be revoked. 

Frequently Asked Questions
--------------------------------------

How am I Charged for Guest Accounts? 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Guests are charged as a user seat.  

Why doesn’t Mattermost Have Single-Channel Guests? 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> We wanted to support collaboration with external guests in the broadest use cases without limiting how many channels you could assign a guest to. In the future, we may consider adding single-channel guests. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We wanted to support collaboration with external guests for the broadest use cases without limiting guests' access to channels. In the future, we may consider adding single-channel guests. 
```

Guest Accounts (Beta) (E10 and E20)
===================================

Available in `Enterprise Edition E10 and higher <https://about.mattermost.com/pricing/>`__. 

Guest Accounts are a new role within Mattermost Enterprise editions which allow organizations to collaborate with individuals (such as vendors and contractors) outside of their organization. The Guest Account feature controls access to channels and other members within the organization. 

An organization may use guest accounts to work on a website project with resources from external design firm.  Guest accounts could also be used to collaborate with customers on a support issue.

Guests can: 

- Pin messages to channels
- Use slash commands (with the exception of those used to invite members)
- Favorite channels
- Mute channels
- Update their account settings

Guests cannot: 

- Discover public channels
- Join open teams
- Create direct messages or group messages with members who aren’t within the same channel

Enabling Guest Accounts
-----------------------------------
To enable Guests Accounts: 

1. Navigate to **System Console > Authentication > Guest Access**.
2. Update **Enable Guest Access** to ”True”.

> 3. **Whitelist domains that are acceptable for Guest Access** (Optional).  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. (Optional) **Whitelist domains that are acceptable for Guest Access**.  
```

Reviewer 3: ^caveat: guideline of where `Optional` is placed (beginning or end of list item) might have changed, but previously I had it at the start for clarity.

Author: Had some feedback that it was a bit confusing, but I am ok with keeping it consistent throughout and having a larger discussion on this.

 - This allows the System Administrators to set a list of approved guest domains. If you have team domain restrictions, you will also need to add your guest domain to **Team Settings > Allow only users with a specific email domain to join this team**.

> 4. **Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for your Guests** (Optional)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) **Enforce Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) for your Guests**.
```

 - If you are enforcing MFA for your users, you can optionally choose to enforce MFA for your guest users. 

Guest Authentication
-----------------------------
Guests can access the Mattermost server via email authentication. Please ensure you enable email invites from **System Console > Signup > Enable Email Invitations**.   

SAML 2.0 and AD/LDAP authentication will be provided in a future release.

Inviting Guests to the Mattermost Server
------------------------------------------------------

> Guests can be invited into one for more Mattermost channels within a team by System Administrators and roles that have the **Invite Guest** permission. 

Reviewer 3: and these channels can be across multiple teams?

Author: updated

**Note:** Guest invitations will be revoked after 48 hours per the member email invitation process. If your guest has not accepted the invitation in the time window, please follow the steps below to resend an invitation to the guest again. 

To invite guests into one or more Mattermost channels:

1. Navigate to **Main Menu > Invite People**.  This is a new invitation option that combines inviting guests and members and consolidates **Send Email**, **Get Team Invite Link**, and **Add Members to the Team**. 
2. Select **Invite Guests**.
3. Enter the guest’s email address.
4. Choose the channels the guest can join. 
5. (Optional) Enter a custom message.

.. image:: ../images/Guest_Invite_Screen.png

Guest Permission Settings 
---------------------------------------

> In E10 and E20, you can also control which users can invite guests. By default, only the System Administrator can invite guests. There are additional permissions in E20 that can be adjusted under **System Console > Advanced Permissions > System Scheme** to control a guest’s ability to:  

Reviewer 3: Propose linking to advanced permissions doc for more details
